I was going to Latin class stoned and that was
a brutal experience. When I came into
contact with alcohol, I threw away
these 21 years. I was married, I got divorced,
I had a young daughter, I didn't
even realize I was a father. You lose your job and you
see yourself in the middle of nowhere, but when you look in the
mirror and talk to yourself honestly and
honestly, you realize that you have
ruined your life because you decided at some
point in your life to start drinking
beer and soda. People who I see
start because of the loss of someone, in your
case, it was the result of what it was that in
math I did the fours
closed at the top. The blackboard went to the
blackboard. Garcia Guado. I went to the blackboard. I
did a subtraction, of course, I closed the four at the
top. The teacher told me that's
wrong, Garcia Guado. No, no, miss, this
is a four. Oh, that's a four, well,
let's call a first-
grader to teach you how to do the
four. I brought up a kid from a
first-grade class in front of the whole class.
Imagine the humiliation that I felt. Yes,
when we talked about the  therapy what do they
do to you to make you stop
wanting to keep using a donkey that you
put on earmuffs and you only go down the
path that the therapists tell you and
only then do you reach a point where you
can take off the earmuffs and start
living it's not like saying I want to stop
using No it's not like doing everything you have to
do to stop using you have
the obligation to recover to stop
screwing up your life and to stop
screwing up the lives of others a
20 year old detainee who stabbed his grandmother and
another woman in a family fight That
's the case that I already had my
wires crossed and I said that I didn't want to continue
with the program because when they
showed me the case I said this guy is not
for doing a TV program I mean this
guy is for being admitted to a
therapeutic center we finished the program
violins after three days he escaped and
did everything that you have told me Can
parents make mistakes too my
mother before dying the phrase
Clara told me she said brother-in-law I will yell at you all my
life and you have to forgive me  maybe
for me but it's that I've done the
best I knew how Okay then since
there's no manual that can teach you you've
done the best there's been
someone has guided you someone has told you
Hey what you're doing could be the
result that your daughter
tomorrow is going to sit in front of a
television set and tell you all this
when you joined survivors at
some point you brought out your worst version
life is always decisions faced with the
same situation how do I want to react
can I let go of my most
primitive feelings [ __ ] myself and tell
oto to [ __ ] off or self-control control myself and
say Hey the one who's feeling bad is
me not this person is making me
feel bad that we always do that it's that
I'm like this because of you without knowing
Maybe there's some older brother in
some of these people's fights I
tried to mediate in one and I almost
[Music]
screwed up no we have Pedro here
What's up good night excuse us a
bit for the hour maybe it's a
little late but since we're a bit
nocturnal then  I say you're
calling me now grandpa people my
age are already sleeping or what grandpa are they
calling the friend we have
here no no but you've been
super worried all day he says let's see Pedro at
that time I say damn Pedro he has to
come at 7 in the afternoon because at 7 in
the afternoon we're alone Marina this is Prime
Time This is already Prime Time
total I say no but maybe for
people in general it's a little late I say
I don't know 11 men2 it sounded a little to me I don't
know used to calling at certain
times well I say 11:20 maybe it seems a
little late but the truth is Chapó eh it's
great it's Great because
the football is over the riot is over
Hormiguero we have the whole audience with
us Pedro I'm really excited
that you're here I'm telling you the truth
we talked a while ago and and and we couldn't meet up
and I was telling Marina I
mean well I love today's guest
The truth is I'm very happy that you
're here man Thank you very much It's a
pleasure to share this little retreat with
you Yes because also
lately yes  It's true that we've
seen you a lot on podcasts, right? In the
end, I think it's a bit like the future,
too, sharing your
experiences, right? The conferences you
're giving now, not in various places
in Spain, I don't stop, I don't stop watching you. I
mean, it's a bit like what you're
doing now, apart from some
Big Brother debates where we see you, it's
a bit like you, you, your day to day. Not combining
both two facets. Yes, the truth is that I saw
conferences. I remember that I started the
first one I did with a PowerPoint that
I invented. It was at a school in
Sanblas and it was in the year, I think
I had already recovered, 2007 or something like that.
Then the biggest one was in 2009 with
the foundation What Really Matters, and
then Big Brother arrived, so from then on,
until
today. Well, I've been combining television with
conferences helping people with
addiction problems, and so
here I go. Yes, yes, the truth is that I combine it
well, and this TV thing combines
conferences. It's really cool because
some of the kids didn't even know me.
older brother but now for them I am the
winner of survivors So
I am not even a champion of course they had not been born so there is
the conference is
taking a look this afternoon and it is
filling up no I mean normally they go super
well no Yes well some are
captive audience or it is in the institute they can't
escape Ah Ah it's that there was a
headline that said Pedro García guado full
full Yes yes it is true that in
town halls and normally when there is
a call to the people of the
community dads moms usually come and the
young people in the morning they bring me to many
institutes and the capacity is too
small in the institute they take it out of the
institute and they put 500 600 700 young people
there so that I can tell them a bit of history
and that they take something the truth is that I do not
tell them I do not bore them or I do not or I do not
tell them anything that maybe they do not know
but when I tell them My story well damn maybe
some of them reflect and make
better decisions than the ones I had I
also talk to them a bit about sports that it
was a good time of values ​​of
sports and damn that can be applied  to
life when things don't go the way you
want How can you turn the
argument around I explain all of that The
truth is that it is a session I
feel very happy to do it and with the
response I get from all the
kids I know Uy kids I I I
sincerely Look, I understand that you
have repeated it on numerous
occasions uh your story from your
beginnings with water polo until
now but yes I would like you
if you don't mind Because I think you already
know it well your life is
obviously not going to know it by
heart but that you could tell a little
to the people who are here also to
us a little How were those
beginnings in 92 if I'm not mistaken not in
the world of water polo and how all that
cover took you to where it took you no
well 92 was when we really
as a team We almost reached the top
no no because we won the silver medal
at the Olympic Games but the team and
I The jump let's say to the professional I
took it at 18 years old in the year  87 I already
moved to Barcelona to eh participate in
the Seoul 88 Olympic Games, I mean
I'm older than a forest, eh in
Seoul 88 I was already with that
tight swimsuit with that cap and the truth is
that it went well for us because for being a
very young team we finished sixth and then
in 4 years we started to win finals
Well, to win finals not to lose
finals sorry because we lost a lot of
finals and already in 92 it was good for
some journalists the big failure but
then 4 years later which is what
the Olympic Games have every 4 years you can
turn the argument around then
we trained I talk to them about Talent,
effort, fear, handling the pressure,
overcoming fear no and here the
water polo team went through all
that and we won the Olympic Games in 96 and then two years later in 98 we won the World Championship the truth is that we were a very, very fun team, very, very popular because nobody knew about water polo and we made it out there in in in the
knowledge of the whole world well
I remember that  we would get into a
taxi and Hey kids What are you doing What are
you playing Well we're from
Water poo and they would say Oh that horse
what the [ __ ] horse horse what if it's in
the water Oh sure in the water and they would say
then stiarte that it was the captain Ah
yes stiarte Then they could already identify
that it was in the water with a
yellow ball So And that was it I
think from 87 to 2000 I was there in the
national team and then in 2003 I
retired to well to put
my life in order a bit which had gotten a bit out of control
but Pedro from having everything a
life of an athlete I imagine that
economically and family super
stable and so on how do you fall into that
filth no you don't realize you
tell me when I was 14 years old on the streets of
Madrid well I already started to have some
behaviors now I know that they are called
risky behaviors no I went to
high school I had a certain insecurity
certain Mood at my parents' house they
had separated in the 80s that separation thing wasn't
very fashionable with
which was the weirdo and well you look for
acceptance in the worst way I started
smoking hash in high school quickly
I didn't like that too much and yes it's
true that alcohol entered my life
very early I remember that the first
alcohol I drank was a beer a
jug of beer with soda I ate in
a bar where there were people who worked in
construction not workers and a
14 year old kid with you come on kid make your
name and they would give me the beer with the
soda [ __ ] it was very nice and the
sensation that I noticed I liked so
that sensation well I repeated it
for a long time and having the
sport I didn't realize that I was
already developing an addiction because you
said Well I control you say
nothing happens to me I go out with my friends yes it
's true that they retired
earlier and I stayed longer and then
yes when illegal drugs came in well I
stayed much longer but then the
following Monday well if I went out on a
Saturday I slept on Sunday and on Monday
I trained with an animal and and I didn't have
any problems until  that in 98
my performance began to decline, my
way of being, my personal relationships,
all of that began to deteriorate. What
happens is that I don't know since when I was addicted
but they tell me that from very early on.
So the only thing I was was what is
called a functional addict, you get
hooked without knowing it on drugs, in this
case, legal drugs, then illegal drugs come in and you
are functional, you function, you go to
work, you perform. What are we talking about cocaine?
Pedro clo Yes, I was, I was, I drank,
I drank, not always, but I did drink
and it appeared in my life that it was a little bit, it
started to lengthen the nights, no
because with alcohol there comes a time
when your body can't take it anymore, you fall to the
ground. What happens is there is also something
so that you are listening to us, I don't know how to
drink, it doesn't affect me so much. So
when you drink a lot and it doesn't affect you, it's bad
because you have developed a tolerance and if you
develop a tolerance, you will deceive yourself
and you will think that you are in control when in
reality it is the problem. So,
to lengthen This was told to me by a
psychiatrist that my star drug,
to put it one way, was alcohol,
which is the  cocaine you take simply to be
able to continue drinking because that way of course
but but in the end you were addicted you
were not addicted to a substance you were an addict addict
Yes that is very good what you say
Marina because people think he is not
addicted to alcohol no the addict is addicted
to everything even if he has not tried it Why
Because it is a behavior
even with technologies or with
substances or with shopping or with
gambling you are going to do everything
compulsively Okay then it is important to
say Yes yes it is like that people deceive themselves I
know people the poor ones who have gone to
treatment we are not going to treat you for
alcohol you can continue taking other
things no [ __ ] No you cannot take anything
for the rest of your life and nothing happens it is
a Liberation eh Because when you
cannot control something it is better not to
take it no because it will destroy your
life And of course what is important is to
say that I am an addict in this case already
rehabilitated What does
rehabilitated mean? Well, I have not consumed for 21
years that I have not consumed but the addict the
addict is always addicted the addict is
addicted Always in what sense that if I had
a glass of something again I would not
do it  in a controlled way but I don't
need to I don't feel like
consuming you know So you put a
bottle of wine in front of me and I don't even
pay attention to it I'm not going to go to a
party where there are obviously
illegal drugs nor am I going to be there until 5 or 6 in
the morning much less am I going to leave
After because I don't feel like it but eh the
addict is always an addict Because they should never
consume again because they won't
know how to do it look This is the word in a
controlled way Then the symptoms
subside you recover but you're still
addicted like a diabetic or like
any other person of course you can't have
a wedding and at a wedding throw yourself at a party one day of course
look at me at the wedding I
throw myself at the party without consuming look at the
association that you have made Well I
mean the party of throwing yourself at me like I drink
today I'm going to get drunk
that can't be clear no no no no I as soon as I
came into contact with alcohol I
threw away these 21 years and also for
me alcohol comes last at
the moment that you become addicted
as you say  it's no longer a party, the one who
maybe does it sporadically
can have fun through that
substance, the addict, not the addict, what he
does is drink a lot and never have
enough, so it's important to
be clear about it and live normally.
There are people who have not consumed for a long time
but they are like that with their
fists clenched, I can't consume what a
pain I can't treat myself from
time to time when the releases
[ __ ] finally I don't have to treat myself
to feel good, eh curious
eh How the way of thinking changes, for
example, before I was addicted to
fast food, I had a, let's go OCD, I mean with
fast food it was but brutal
and as a result of Well, some medication and
some guidelines and such, now I get eh
No, if I eat fast food once
every two weeks I eat it, if I don't eat it,
nothing happens, I don't know if it's the same, I don't know if it
's the same or I suppose the same. No, yes, the
World Health Organization defines what you
're talking about as
behavioral addictions that have to do with
the abuse of, in this case, fast food or
the abuse in the use of technology, in the
end, if you  you have developed the
need to eat that food to
feel good with the patterns that you have
made you have already broken that need you have broken
that pattern of behavior With
technologies the same thing happens if you abuse
technologies and you need to be connected
to calm the
discomfort that not being connected causes you
Then you have to start
developing another behavior With some
guidelines with medication at the beginning
because it generates some anxiety and that
is the way in the end to free yourself from
a slavery or a bond such as
food this garbage
compulsive eating
compulsive shopping sex gambling you know all that
kind of things when you talk about
ruining your life or I mean what are
we talking about like economic ruin
all relationships family everything is not like like
an oil stain does not go on
staining never better said all
areas of your life economic ruin
evidently you have no control over
money On your income you spend more than you
earn you owe Then you go to
work which is what happened to me the
last 5 years I went to practice
water polo which was where I
was happiest the truth is that  Playing
water polo I was very happy and I was very
good at it, I had a good set of
skills and things started
to deteriorate. Then, relationships. I was
married and divorced. I had a
young daughter and I didn't even realize I was a
father. Then I got together with another partner and
had another daughter. You live such a
crazy life that in the end it's a ruin,
obviously you lose your job and you
see yourself in the middle of nowhere, in the most authentic
misery. Now you keep
deceiving yourself and you think, well, it's not
that bad what's happening to you.
But when you look in the mirror and you
look at yourself and you talk to yourself honestly and
honestly, that's what you usually do in therapy,
you realize that you have ruined your
life because of that very reason because you decided at
one point in your life to start drinking
beer and soda and nobody knows
when because they say there's a
genetic predisposition that
affects some people more than others,
that addiction develops and when you
develop an addiction there are no
half measures. Either you quit or you're going to suffer your
whole life and you're going to make
others suffer.  your whole life with your family you
before starting with alcohol with
hashish and later with cocaine is there
something that went wrong in your life because
normally what they comment me from
ignorance is that it is used a bit
as an escape route Not because things are
not going well or people that I see who
start because of the loss of someone, because of
a breakup, because of financial ruin, for whatever reason
in your case if you want to
share it as a result of what it was because you
comment that I was doing well in water polo
or I don't know if it is due to a
specific situation, look, that is usually the excuse
that as an addict you give yourself when you have to
blame someone then for a
long time I blamed I was already 34 years old
when I entered a center that if my
parents had divorced when I
was little Well you blame
everything No yes I would tell you that one reason is to
say what you escape from through
consumption It is for example in my case it was
unresolved emotions I had a lot of
hate a lot of resentment I did not understand
very well the separation of my parents
when I was a teenager then I grew up
with  all that what happens when you have those
emotions 12 13 14 15 years old as a
teenager you don't know them regular [ __ ] when you
try something you do look eh
[ __ ] I feel so good I no longer think
about how bad that made me feel
then you look for that
avoidant behavior I avoid the pain okay that doesn't
mean that everyone who has
hate anger resentment who has suffered a trauma
who has not dealt well with the separation of
their parents who has had a
financial meeting has to take drugs to calm that down
So the problem is when
these things happen the drugs cross and on
top of that there is that genetic predisposition
Then you already have all the
ingredients for the development of an
addiction or there is substance abuse with
this issue. Of course, over time I grew up and I
said, sure, [ __ ] now I understand, I
felt very bad and through consumption I did not
regulate what I had but I calmed it down
So what do you want to repeat that
feeling unconsciously, for
example, it was a cycle of consumption, I don't
know, every weekend Then I waited for
the weekend to chalk up the
biggest thing there are many people who are
weekend consumers and of those
weekend consumers  week some will be
addicted and others won't But they are looking for
escape in that on the weekends
in substance abuse no And the truth
is that
nothing serious has to have happened to you simply that I associate it with the fact that
yes it is true that when I was drinking I did
n't feel that pain that had been
produced by a series of events
in my childhood also things that
had happened to me at school a
teacher who humiliated me at school that that was
reminded to me when I was in
therapy I say Damn they told me What things Do
you think could have hurt you
so much to want to run away from her I say
Well look it comes to mind of a
teacher that in math I
did the fours closed at the top
So I don't know if I was in fifth grade g
or sex of gb adolescence of that
time wow and I went out The blackboard to the blackboard
García guado go out to the blackboard I
went out to the blackboard I made an ar subtraction of
course the four I closed it at the top and I
did it thinking it was a four the
teacher told me that's wrong García
guado me no no miss this is a
four Ah that's a four Well  I think it's
a nine so let's call
a kid from first grade to
teach you how to do the four. He went up to a
kid from a first grade class in front of the
whole class. The kid, of course, was
doing his workbooks, blond. The
guy nailed the four, he made a
perfect four. Imagine the humiliation
I felt. You don't remember that because you're
little, but it causes you pain, pain to your
ego. A psychologist who analyzed me said, "Were your
ego damaged when you were little or something?"
Something happened to you. And you say, "Look, well,
no, I don't remember. I remember these
things, not completely, but in the end you say, damn,
something must have happened to me for me to
feel like I was also taking those substances."
No, and I'd like to repeat it. So, each
person gets to consumption through different
routes, some of us stay and others don't.
That also depends on many things and the
role of your parents. There, it's not very
compromising. Trust what they say around
here, of course. They anesthetized me. The role of
my parents. Well, the role of my parents
was a role, eh, [ __ ], well, they
did the best they knew how.  my father
pulled the cart as best he could with three children
my mother well let us all curse her at
that time she was the bad guy in the movie
when you realize that my mother was
a piece of a woman super brave to
make a decision in 1980 with the
divorce law recently approved and that I didn't
know how to see it until almost the end of her
days and of course those things also
hurt but now I don't take drugs to
ease that pain but I say [ __ ] what an
[ __ ] I was for missing out on the piece of
mother that I had for judging her so
harshly for having made a decision
that the truth is that for making that
decision she was then able to be with
us with my sisters and me
helping us for a long time no So it's
time that sometimes gives you
perspective no and I remember that it was
a very complicated situation for my
mother having to live a bit of
rejection on my part but nevertheless she
died she died in my arms not in the year
2015 that's why I left that show
big brother when we talk about
therapy what is it What is it about I mean what do they
do to you to get
rid of the  desire to continue consuming
the therapy there has to be a bit of
confrontation, that is to say, they have to
dismantle a little how your
brain works in your brain
a
neuroadministration has occurred you do
not know how to live with pain you do not know how to live with
what affects you So you minimize it
to take away its severity and so that it does not
affect you no Then everything is put on the
table that the product of your
addiction you have been doing what you have
lost what you have is what you think has
been very serious very Then you
frontally is worth it from the confrontation
then you have to collect the patient and
mark a series of habits and guidelines
for him to follow a routine I followed
a routine for a long time I got
up at the same time I did a
physical activity I attended therapy I read I went back to
therapy or in other words all
that for almost 2s years or in other words like an
automaton and I make the example of a
donkey that you put earmuffs on and you only
go on the path that the therapists tell you
and only then do you reach a point where you
can take off the earmuffs
and start living and start living
also has its consequences because
if you are not prepared  emotionally if you have
n't made a complete change in your
life if you haven't given up and
surrendered to the evidence that you can't
use again the urge to
use may flourish and and and appear from
time to time so it's a treatment
that I call high intensity and what
really works is not saying I
want to stop using No it's not doing
everything you have to do to stop
using and for that you have to change it's
explained this is a phrase from a long
time ago you have to turn yourself inside out like
a sock like Don't do that there will always
be open doors loopholes
where the disease can creep in
and after 10 8 5 15 years you start
using again I am very lucky to have
believed in the treatment to have
done it very well and to have been 21 years without
using I am one of the few people who has
not relapsed you have always
verbalized eh all this your addictions
eh it has never been a taboo subject I
wonder especially at the time
society how it responded because
society is sometimes a bit hypocritical
not with these things I think  It's not like, well,
how did they respond when you went public,
not so much now, but years ago, when you
made public your addictions, your
problems, and all this stuff, for
a while I was, let's say, apart from
many things, I was apart from friendship, I
was apart from everything, so I stayed away from it all for
two years, then I started to
work, I worked on things that
had nothing to do with my
previous life, water polo, I started working
at the reception desk as a
reception assistant at a hotel, selling
vacuum cleaners, and then I got into the
therapeutic world, I wrote a book in
2008, 6 years after I had been
admitted for 5 years, and it was very well
received by people. In the end, when you,
when you tell things from the heart and
without this, you weren't famous, no, I mean, this was
an anonymous person, not yet. Of course, I
was more famous for the sport
because I had been very successful in the
Water Polo team and we were known.
And then, of course, when I published the
book, I had an interview and the
journalist put in an incredible headline, I'm not an
Olympic champion, I'm a cocaine addict. I use
no, so of course, people, this, yes, yes,
this, of course, there was no clickbait at that time.
so but well it's good, people of course
read the interview and bought the book and
then there, damn people were
very grateful for the sincerity and the
bravery with which I
told everything, not everyone liked it
obviously because they thought that I
was blaming them, especially the
sports establishments, which wasn't like that, I did
n't blame my addiction on anyone
and that helped a lot of people so it
depends on how you tell it, people
take it well as something [ __ ], I have been
helping people with my testimony for 21 years,
life That is on the street That is there in
all eras in all neighborhoods,
that is there And also the fact of saying
Hey, even if you are a successful guy, a
successful girl in your life, damn, you may
be suffering from this, nothing happens,
you can take it anonymously, I didn't want to take it
anonymously, I wanted to show it
to help and it has been very good
for me, everyone of course told me, damn,
how brave so-and-so has been and I said no no don't make a
mistake There is no bravery
here, what you have to be very responsible
okay And I said I had the obligation  to
recover So sometimes it's a
[ __ ], look how brave you are How good that you did it
no no just like you have
the flu and you want to recover from it you
also have the obligation to
recover first and I'm going to be very tough
eh to stop screwing up your life and to
stop screwing up the lives of others
okay because then you become aware
that your addiction is screwing up the lives of
others no And I believe that is an
obligation and I appreciate the people who
congratulate me And such But just as if it were any
other illness you have
the obligation to do everything possible
to cure yourself but it's also generous to
share it with others Because they can
see how the subsequent steps
can lead to where that trying the joint that
trying the beer
look when you are a teenager is that
you are curious and the pressure of the group,
I who talk a lot about teenagers
sometimes I [ __ ] with you so as not to be
rejected or not rejected [ __ ] What do you
do well come on I'm going to consume
because if not I'm going to be the weird one or the
weirdo of the group right And then that
as you don't know if  if they poked you and
told us, look man, you have a fivefold increase in
chances of developing
addictive behavior because of your genetics,
if we knew what the sen that
predisposes a person to developing
addiction or abusive behavior,
well, prevention would be better, then of
course, when you start trying,
it's even fun, [ __ ], me, like, as a
joke, okay, I went to Latin class
stoned and that was a brutal experience,
of course, [ __ ] you laugh, damn there are no
consequences, but [ __ ], of all of us
who started going to Latin class
stoned, well, maybe there were two of us who
developed a dependency, the others reached
a point in their lives when they said, I'm not
drinking anymore, so that's the crux
of the matter. I wish we could make
a very effective prevention measure to say,
look, if you want to drink, take it, you'll
have the problems that come with
consuming a toxic substance
like alcohol and drugs. But do
n't get too close to it because you are going
to, even if you don't want to, possibly that in
your brain is going to have a function
or it is going to unleash mechanisms that it is not going
to unleash in another, no. So  that's the
complicated part And what explanation
can there be, my goodness, I'm already taking
advantage of therapy here, for
example, as a teenager I drank No,
like almost all young people who drank
but I drank for the typical calimocho and
such And how is it possible that for the last 10
years I've become astemic or rather I
reject alcohol, I don't like it
at all, I don't see any taste, I don't like it at all, at all, at
all, but it's that I don't
see it and it's that I hate beer, I
hate wine It's that I don't like that at all,
what explanation is there? I drank quite a lot, eh,
as a teenager, I mean, I want to tell you
Well, look, I think you needed it
baby Marina, of course you took it from a
period of abuse, not in the end You reached
rejection, even intolerance,
so it's also true that you, from what you
've said Marina, well, you
also had a bit of a substitution with the
issue of food, this garbage, no,
then you changed one thing for something else
and now you are much more
stabilized, so it's true that there are
people who abuse it for a period of their lives
and then they stop or they hate it
what Because they haven't developed the
addiction, they haven't developed it is
the important word that is not said
many times they have not developed the
need to consume to calm the
discomfort caused by not consuming it is that that is
the cycle of addiction That
is the circle it is not that we are weak it
is not like the junkie of the 80s
why he shoots up because it was super
pleasurable and such Yes that was the sensation
but when he had hooked he shoots up
to calm the contractions the withdrawal the
vomiting the discomfort that his
body caused him the absence of drugs
So that is the circle of
addiction just like tobacco Why do you
smoke every 20 minutes because your body
has eliminated the nicotine your brain already
needs it and asks for another dose how many
people died in that time I know
many people who died in that time
also the substances are like adding up
because You start to use
tobacco you start with the beer
now you give cocaine to maintain
a little The joke of such then
when you already exceed the cocaine you
put in the calm like that because  cocaine at
9 8 in the morning it's still not and you
put it in quietly like that to be able to or I mean
that's what I've heard eh from people
also telling stories it
takes you from one to another and when you
realize it you have such crap and garbage
in your body that you say man what the hell are you
doing? I'm in the centers that I
collaborate with, I'm now in Coria del Río
in one called the Sor Salud Foundation
and in another one in Figueras called
Synopsis Step by Step we treat then on an
outpatient basis in Barcelona also in
the Tempus center we treat women
over 50 and some years old damn what comes a
therapy with a little bag Of course they're not
taking pills anymore okay but they bring
candy So ​​when they get
nervous they take a candy And the thing is that
for a long time in their life and through
pills prescribed by the doctor Lan
quim cin says bread etcetera etcetera and
mixed with alcohol they conditioned their
life to that consumption and to being numb
all afternoon lying on the couch But
of course they said it's that he
sent me the pills  the doctor of course we
make a joke of well I'll send you one
every 8 hours not eight every hour okay
But they didn't know that they were going to
develop a dependency it's because they
took them on doctor's prescription what
you said today I take a little from
here another from here I'm high so I'm going to
take one to calm down
I'm short so I'm going to take something
to bring me up in the end damn it's no no no
accepting your state of mind damn I'm
tired I'm tired if the
medications are now sold to you in
ads are you sick I'll test in 24 hours You
are already productive Yes of course you can't
even get sick in this life Pedro
and you and you for example going back a little
to your stage as an older brother I don't know if they
will call you they will continue calling you like that on the
street older brother well that you who
told me between
t is the older brother of course it's total you who
peed so much between fathers mothers
children and siblings would you have changed
any of the methods that you used if
the program were broadcast today
or is there something that you regret
today I I understand Now I understand
that  the program and that's what the
director of the second season taught me it
had to be done that way to
maintain a television tension and for the
viewer Well, sympathize more with
the parents than with the kids okay And
that in this case the parents were the
victims It's true that the parents were
the victims of some kids who were
executioners but who had previously been
victims and what I'm saying every boy and every
girl in that program had a
story of things that they hadn't been able to
resolve whether it was a divorce, the death
of a family member, many things that bully at
school and their parents hadn't been
right when it came to dealing with it I don't
know each one had their reasons Okay
then I would say to the kids I would say
Look you have reasons to be
angry you have reasons to be
angry but that doesn't give you the
right to be cruel because I had been cruel
with my mother then I understood that
what would I do now the program
stigmatized the kids a lot I
entered in a very harsh way because
also television time if the
first 20 minutes that V the
viewers to a kid attacking
breaking up and such I can't come in a
loving way man I understand you come here I'm
going to give you a hug the viewer wouldn't
understand ent I had to enter like an
elephant in a china shop setting rules
limits which was what the viewer
wanted after the program and during
the program I was trained on how to
do the family intervention I was
studying and then the
family intervention has to be done in a
much slower way you have to
understand all the parties you have to
understand and and give love also to that
person who is suffering and that the
abuse that he exercises in this case the
violence not the abuse the violence is
caused by something that he doesn't know how to
control So don't judge him so
harshly and accompany them the word
accompany him until he realizes
that this behavior that he is having
is not the most appropriate even if he gives
reasons Then I would do it now
But maybe it wouldn't be so televised
because maybe the first thing I would do
would be man don't hit your father but come
here I'm going to give you a hug because I know
that he is suffering because you have to
be really screwed up to hit a father a
mother no Then I would do a little
that reference would take it more from
emotional education which is what
happened to everyone, from
emotional literacy Look man, what you
feel is called hate and it is regulated like that and
if it is an emotion it is regulated from something
physical but since you have been hating for a
long time as happened to me
Maybe what we have to change is the
way of thinking about what
happened to us and reduce the intensity of hate
so as not to react with violence There
were also many boys who had few
social skills eh they had been
educated in a very
strong overprotection with which when things did not
go as they wanted they reacted with
violence But because they have been there all their lives
Pedro I wanted to ask you how the
older brother is born but I understand that it is because of
this subject of the book, no I mean, if
the subject of the book went viral at the time
and you would call the attention of the producer
No, I call the attention of the producer
as a presenter but the program is a
French program it premiered on
French television it is the idea of ​​a
French producer le concepte was the
one who had premiered in France with The
Mayor of Paris's Bodyguard a
guy who handed out blows like a champion  His
name was Pascal, he was an expert on Kate. He
had systems that
took them all to his doyo, to his gym. There,
someone would get paid. And then he
would redirect them. I remember that the production company
Plural Entertainment bought
the format, brought it to Spain, it sat
in a drawer for a while, and when they
saw the book, my book called me and
did the casino for me. And then they
liked the way I confronted the
kids and how I spoke to them. Well, yes, they
had brought educators, psychologists, and
such. But it was as if they were very orthodox when it came to
dealing with him. I broke all
the rules and I told them everything and I
spoke and said yes, such and such, no, and it was very,
very confrontational. And he liked that a lot.
And so that was what made the program
rise like foam in
audiences. In addition, there were some brutal years
of audience for four. The one from France
was pure host. He was no less psychological.
The one from France was always the same, he followed
a series of patterns, the same thing. So yes, they
always ended up going to
this guy's gym. When
the production company hired me, I said, Hey, I don't know how to
hit, he said, No, but in your case, let's
take them to do some.  type of sport
and when doing sport the first season was
done very well the second one too
then we changed the sport it was the
no the sport was like like the
cokes no that they say you have to take him out for a
run so that he tires out a little every
day well that's totally it was when they
were softer and that's when they
broke they cried and confessed everything it was
brutal That's that but Pedro I saw I
saw that in the majority that I have seen
the episodes 200 times repeated because it is
true that there is something that
hooks you that with the harshness with which
some spoke to their parents to their
siblings for me it was impossible to
reason with them and of course today I
think that a format like that would be inemi
as it is now television and
society I don't know some were
lost cases for you in quotes Let's see not so
much, you didn't have to give them time what
happens is that I had 10 days 8 days in
some cases So I was very
invasive and that's why some were confrontational
confrontational if
you give those kids a space of time
that we had to record 12 13
14 hours a day to then broadcast 52
seconds imagine 10 days to 12 13 hours
of recording the kid in the end I think he
ends up saturated dec ok Pedro I'm going to
change because he's a pain and get out of
here no but if you do it giving them the
appropriate time They are going to
drain themselves they are going to fight but in the end they
reason because they had a good heart good
heart really there was none that
I said this guy is a bad person they all
had their issues their problems that they hadn't
known how to handle So if you
gave him more time it wasn't so
difficult to talk to them but I had to
arrive pam pam pam pam pam three
first days caña caña caña there were
minutes of dynamics and then I
said at the moment they broke down is
that they broke down at that moment I said
now yes I can show myself close to
you but I recorded and I stopped eh from the set we
took him somewhere else I recorded and they
left I had no contact with him
off camera then The kid said
damn this guy comes here  the girl hits me
from all sides he leaves I want to
talk to him look how good they were eh
I want to talk to him calmly and
the reactor told him no No you can't yet
So in the end they said damn
Pedro it seemed like you were coming and that you were
against me and I said No I came exp
give you a reality that if I had
come in another way Maybe you wouldn't have
seen it but now with
time I know that they would have seen it
but it takes Maybe a month of
recording there is no production company that can
handle that you had contact with I mean I don't
know if there was a follow-up afterwards eh with
some of them Specifically on your
part or have you kept in touch with
any of them over time
yes Look recently one of I
think it was the first season Ivan wrote to me
that he's getting married next year and I
called him because he wrote me on Instagram and he
says but I want him to be my
best man man will you say that he should be your
witness because the best man has to be your
friend A close friend says yes yeah I got
nervous that I pu no no but
the guy got nervous and  I say I'm
delighted that you called me,
also a guy who we got the mattress
from home well well that case was very hard
too and the guy has thrown himself into
another one I found him well Dakota is the
most famous Dakota is a person that I
have with her we send each other messages on WhatsApp
and so on she is a girl who changed
her relationship with her parents but then
day she has a character and watch out with
Dakota there are not many who have written to me others have not
changed I have to say
others have not changed Well Dakota
we have seen Dakota on television which is what
you say about character be careful I mean still
with a genius br program I don't
change personalities the program what it was
trying to do was redirect a
situation of discomfort in the house how to
redirect reestablish
healthy coexistence within the home but if you
are a kid who has your issues and
your character I'm not going to change it
right They send me a case you just
mentioned that not everyone changed a
20 year old detainee in Baracaldo who
stabbed his grandmother and another woman
in a family fight that was a that I have
experienced  I That is the case that
in year two I don't remember the third
year third season of Big Brother
was the one where I got my
wires crossed and I said
that I did not want to continue with the program
because when they showed it to me in the case I
said this boy is not to do a
TV program I mean this boy is
to be admitted to a therapeutic center
in the end we admitted him to a center the
program led him there but it
led him without having done well what is
done for a person to enter which
is a motivational interview which is your
consumption has so many negative things that you have to
enter you see admit me he was
admitted we finished the program violins and in
the third three days he escaped and
did what you have told yes yes this
boy for me is one of the
hardest cases and the one that hurt me the most bad the
conclusion then there was another kid
also who appeared on television in
radical groups and such a very very
sexist guy there have been cases that Hey we
could not help them and that hurt me
but if we put it in the balance I did
100 cases I accompanied  100 families, 85
% were very happy, and they
have written to me. Is this small percentage
because they have no remedy? Or
are there other remedies? Because maybe the
approach? Maybe what I was talking about now?
The approach would have been longer,
calmer, more peaceful, some others, we
weren't miraculous. I gave it to
the people. I don't touch the children and
cure them. eh? This is a
long-term job and
all the responsibility can't fall on you. You
were a team, it was a program, it was still a
television program, no, and in 10 days you are not
Teresa of Calcutta either. It's what
you say, quite a lot. I mean, the fact that
someone wrote to you offering to
be their godfather already says a lot. I want to
tell you, those who see, those who see, have
contacted me. Look, for example,
Miguel, a great kid. I met him in La
Nucía, in the Levante area near Benidorm, he
worked in hotel maintenance
and he says to me, Pedro, do you know me, a guy in a jumpsuit? I say,
wow, he doesn't say, I'm Miguel, I say
Pam automatically.  of older brother I say
there I remembered the frame where he
hit the door to the door with a
kick to the door of the parking lot and
broke it I say damn Miguel How are you Well I
'm very well I say well and after the
program he says Well Pedro there were
things that I couldn't tell the program
then I was in jail but I got
out and now I have a daughter and a
wife and I really appreciate what you
did with me I say [ __ ] I say Well I
also appreciate it because in a certain
Man there are some things that I think I
did that maybe I screwed you over a little and
such he says no no everything you did was very good for me
and like him there have been
many who have thanked me for that that
intervention others
were not so happy but most of you have
come in some episode to the point of being
afraid that someone will confront you in an
aggressive way of course they were kids some of
whom damn are very aggressive and besides they
are not children damn they can hurt you No
look Yes when I saw the images before
going to the house I told the
director I say Hey this beast and then he
arrived in front of them  I looked at the
guy's eyes and when I looked at them I
said HM this kid isn't bad and I
lost all the tension with which
I arrived this kid is crying out for
help So yes there was some
friction, a push from someone But what I
did directly when I entered there
was my ego I threw him to the ground and
said look everything this kid
tells me part of that he's having a really bad time I
said And from there I can help him
Better and I remember that I only fought
with one in the first season I didn't
have any experience yet I
grabbed one of them and I said dude stop because you
're going too far I don't know what And I never
had to grab a guy again just one
who went for his mother I don't know if it was the
fifth sixth season I don't remember He
went for his mother so I did have to
tackle him and the guy didn't hit me or anything he
stopped I threw him to the ground I said dude until you
calm down I'm not letting you go I mean
because you were going to hurt your mother and
that I can't allow and the guy
said okay Pedro I calmed down  calm down let me go let me go I let him
go and he didn't do
anything to his mother but nothing else the girl did
scratch me and kick me
eh but because of the rage they felt I
never took it as like nothing
personal and Pedro eh you mentioned before
that the older brother put the focus no that
the executioner was always the
children no and lately I see a lot in
some television programs where
the focus is put eh especially the mothers No I don't
want to give you either eh I don't know if I should
give you examples so as not to put you in a
difficult position but well in some
programs like Isabel
Patoja Carmen Borrego well etc
the focus is a bit on the children being
a bit the victims and the
mothers Well a bit the executioners in the
end I don't know if television interests
pull more in that direction or if
parents can really make mistakes
too or if it's always the
kids' fault of course totally totally
look at what I've studied since it
's a bit of an ugly course not that it's an
expert in intervention in
parental Filio violence  expert in the
intervention of violence that
sons and daughters exercise against fathers and mothers they
tell you that 20% of the behavior of
the personality is this It is marked by
genetics the other 80% that affects
behavior has to do with the
educational model so [ __ ] there are
educational models and I tell you this because
my mother before dying that I asked her for
forgiveness the phrase she told me Clara said to me
darling I loved you all my life and you
have to forgive me maybe you forgive me
but it's that I have done the best I
knew Okay then since there is no [ __ ]
manual that teaches you you as an adult
can be doing things thinking that they are
best for your son or your daughter
and nevertheless you are conditioning in
that 80% to bad behavior a
feeling of discomfort anger
hatred a feeling of abandonment it is very
easy to judge with the eyes of another put yourself in
the shoes of mothers who have had to raise
their children or these
people that you have named these
mothers not their personal circumstances
yes it is true that part of the
behavior of those boys or those
girls is the responsibility of those fathers
and those mothers but not  You can tell them it
's your fault, it's only your fault,
no, you've done it the best there has
been, they have taught you, they have
guided you, someone has told you,
hey, what you are doing could be the
result that you get is that your daughter
tomorrow will sit in front of a
television set and will tell you all this,
you didn't know at that time,
so to judge that they did bad,
well then we would have to be
fathers and mothers, I have judged
my parents very, very harshly and then I know I've
stopped twice, I have been, as I have
told you, for a while, involved in
drugs, so who am I to judge
anyone, no, the important thing is to learn and
say, damn, now my daughters I have a
good relationship with them because I left
all that and I have prepared myself to
educate them better, but look, to
accompany them, which for me is the
word, I am accompanying them so that
tomorrow they know how to fend
for themselves and I will do it better or worse and they will
have their reproaches because, of course, I have
messed up in things, we are not
perfect as parents, look at your
mental strength with your wisdom with
everything that you've lived through when you entered
Survivor All Star you had your
because of course we have to see if there I imagine
you saw those moments of weakness that
that you managed to overcome but that you
are human you know that still the All St
I have not gone yet eh they will offer it to me I do
n't know when the All Star was
after it was Ah okay okay okay okay true true
Ah they will offer it to me
we are already giving For more than anything For more
than anything because they were there for a month
and a half and we were there for days Ah
okay that it is that it was continued it was continued it
was continued Sorry that I already have it is
true it was continued I spent tell me tell me what you
were telling me not that you had that strength but
that in some moments like It is logical and
in that extreme circumstance well eh the
forces of weakness The hunger such at
some point you took out Your worst version that
you yourself commented man is that
We are human and I as much self-control as I have that I
have because I have
had many situations there that if I
had not had the preparation that I had
of having worked for 21 years
on myself I would have jumped more but of
course  There are times when I After
21 years deprived of food, of comforts
in a situation where I was not, I had
zero authority for all those people,
you know, I was just one more and I think that's fine, well, [ __ ], you
can lose your nerves
obviously, but look how I lose them,
I think I'm the last one to jump in
a conflict that they had from the
first day and then since that conflict
that was the first two weeks, I make
the decision to say, I mean, the fight that
I have here is not with this
partner, male or female, or contestant,
call it whatever you want, it's with me and with my
hunger, with my suffering, with my
moods and my desire to, because
I should give up, give up, I didn't want to give up,
eh, I didn't want to give up. What
happens is that I didn't want to continue suffering
and I was suffering, so I say at what
point and they told me the adaptation
arrives in three weeks and I say, well, let's
go for the fifth and I'm still
suffering but not a lot and in the end you have to, you have to
decide. I mean,
life is always decisions when faced with the same
situation, how do I want to react? Can I
let go of my most primitive feelings
with, Sorry, [ __ ] on the [ __ ] and  send it
all to hell or self-control control myself
and say Hey the one who's feeling bad
is me not this person is making me
feel bad that we always do that it's that
I'm like this because of you no no
people do things and I decide how
those things that they do make me feel and I started like this
saying Hey this What are you doing I say
[ __ ] Well today I'm hungrier
because what they're doing is
bothering me more I didn't blame them I
blamed my mood and it was
like a balm for me all the preparation that
I had in the therapies That was
my preparation to be a survivor without
knowing there is any some older brother
in some of these people's fights I
tried to mediate in one and and I almost screwed up
for your program I didn't try to mediate in
one I tried to mediate in one and and it turns out
that of course the way I had to
mediate many times was by confronting
saying Hey you said this and you
said this damn solve it there they didn't
want to there they didn't want to take
responsibility I said look at my method I thought
Hey I accept your anger such my method is
not valid here calm down that no longer  I will
mediate again And so it was I measured it more and is there
any partner that you take with you as an
experience for life man I
have to see a special affection with the one I
reached the final with Torres
obviously he is a guy who is in all the
teams also I did not separate from him throughout
the entire competition I know that he would have
liked to win but I am taking a great
partner I am taking a Javier Hungría
that I spent little time with him but what I
lived with him seemed like a fantastic guy I
take and you take the money and I take
the money that I have that I have
earned and I have worked for them V are you going to
invest them in helping no Or is the Treasury
happy with
that already done already made a donation
made a donation to an association
called 21 hours that is helping
boys and girls through
support for the prevention of
drug use and abuse and technologies
as well and then I have financed not
personally treatment but I have
given to these two centers that I have
mentioned some money so that people
that for example I know a  treatment let's
see there are centers that for me are too expensive okay they
are very expensive But well the
drugs are also expensive okay health does not
have to have a price it has a lot of
value but I collaborate with centers that
are in a range of about 3500 4000 a
month and you only have to be admitted for two months
then you have to do a
follow-up there are people Hey look I can't
pay 3,000 Well then you pay eh
2000 and 1000 of donation that Pedro has left
Ok so it is the
institutions themselves who decide Which
patient they are going to subsidize so as not to
waste that money no And the truth is
that there have already been some who
have benefited from that donation and
then I have also saved a little
because we all know how life goes that
now you are at the top and then you spend 6
years without appearing on television and you have to
do other types of jobs so
saving is good and help my
daughters a little bit too Hey how
wonderful Pedro and we are going to leave you
but I have to ask you a question if you
could go back in time with
what  You know, today you would change
everything you've lived through, all the
bad experiences you've had
in the last 20 years, all
to avoid falling and having a
normal life as an athlete. Today I
would dedicate myself to something else. This
question is stupid. I heard him
answer Anthony Hopkins. I think it
was him, the one from Hannibal Electri. No,
I said no. Reproaches about my life. No, I don't
have any reproaches, because everything has
helped me learn, okay, great,
everything has helped me learn, but
damn, I would change that pitcher of
beer that I drank. And I would take that first joint away, yes, I would take it
away because that
robbed me of things that I can no longer
live again. I lived through a
very good time in water polo, but I'm telling you
the truth, I was very good and I could have
been even better, and because I was
involved in that, my performance instead
of rising exponentially rose, but it
stayed at a limit and then dropped. So
that's not going to give me back my life,
so I would change it, I would change that. Of course,
what happens is that if I look back,
I say, damn, that would close it all, eh, of course  what I
learned wasn't so bad either What would I
be now for example if I had done
that Well maybe I would be a
National Water Polo coach I
would have a different life I don't know and we wouldn't
be here we wouldn't be talking about
this in the end I don't have any
regrets but if I could change
something I would say damn my last 5 years of my
sports career were [ __ ]
hell when they could have been
wonderful you know what I think it's not the
same experience obviously it's not the
same life but I always say Well
life what it has been and what it's
doing with all the mistakes with all
the stumbles and everything in the end it's the
path that has brought us to where we are right
now and well we're not bad no
Exactly that's the good thing learning
along the way when I tell the kids
Hey a silver medal in the
Olympic Games is a success or a failure for some it
's a success or a failure you know
what a failure is not learning from your
mistakes that is a real
failure living your whole life repeating
the same mistakes So when I learn
to say Hey well possibly we are
succeeding not in some way that no  I know
if you could put some
addresses of the centers you
collaborate with here in case someone who is
watching us here needs some kind of help
and wants to reach you or whatever if you
can put them here at some
point or you don't let us know or whatever or
share it I'll leave it for you Yes yes okay and
one is called the Sior Health Foundation it's like that
and there's a very nice message that
Pedro posted before that they said I don't
remember the city they posted but they
posted Pedro came to my city and in
a talk at my school I think they
said university I don't know if they said
University or school and he says I've never
seen so many kids listening to him
respecting each other and enthralled listening to him I
love the kid thing let's see clearly he's
referring to a little bit of trav the evils to
those who want to call attention Of course
yes I, I, it's that normally when I
go like they were like me when I
see them there that they are the mar Tas Candiles and
such and and as they are the toughest and what
they want to call attention because they are screwed
because they have Maybe they
have issues such and such  and you say who
wants a hug and because of how embarrassed they are they
don't speak the whole time and they
stay like that I say this guy is going to give me
a hug and leave me here in
evidence in front of everyone ent you
already have them there for you or if not you
take them out so they can tell you a
story and the truth is that they are
wonderful What happens is it's the same as
always with the boys and the girls We
have to talk from their from their
mental map I can't just come and say I
'm 55 years old I've made a mistake in
life be careful guys such and such I don't have to
get with Hey how are you
feeling what's happening to you what's wrong what
scares you how do you handle
frustration when things don't go the
way you want And I said [ __ ] this guy is
talking about things that I'm feeling And
then when I tell them that I say Well look
I was bullied at school
then I became one of the tough guys then such and such
then in the water poo I was the [ __ ] boss
but look I got into drugs and I
lost everything so [ __ ] the  kids
stay like that and say [ __ ] and then I
show them a video that touches their
hearts so much that they all come out crying and I say
well now go home and hug
your parents that they're not doing so badly
and then I tell them and come in the
afternoon that it's their turn to catch this
afternoon How nice many parents come and
say damn Pedro what did you say to my
son this morning I say nothing I told him
that you do the best you know how and that he should
give you a hug and tell you that I
loved you s Pedro you have to feel
super fulfilled with what you do it's that they're
stupid I have fun and the truth
is that I like it I like doing it I
think I've found my element and I
think that's what I can do
all the suffering that happens transmit it
through that to help you know to
help and to prevent to help and
to prevent well Pedro we don't waste any
more of your time I would lay you here until
3 in the morning and I think the public
also simply wanted to say
thank you so much for coming right? Here is
your home and well we already follow each other
on social media you know that to
Anything that is needed is in my hands
where to find us and it is mine you know it
infinite Thank you for everything Pedro you are you are
This take care of yourselves and continue here
entertaining and helping too and you and
you also helping there are many people here
watching I hope more people like you the truth
a community to take care of take care of yourselves Well
yes Likewise A huge hug bye bye
for